README.md, before:

DESC 3x2pt Pipeline Stages
--------------------------

This is a collection of modules for the DESC 3x2pt pipeline.
We will build up the modules needed for the analysis as shown in the Pipelines repository.

It builds on the ceci repository for the infrastructure.

Goals
-----

- Test using parsl for some of our larger more complex analyses.
- Build and test a prototype pipeline infrastructure.
- Build and run prototype.
- Perform and publish a DC2 3x2pt analysis.


Installation
------------

Requires python3, numpy, scipy, pyyaml, fitsio, h5py (which in turn needs HDF5), and parsl.

Needs the ceci DESC library on the python path (which is not quite stable enough to be worth a setup.py yet).

On NERSC (Cori) - see the instructions below

Cori
----

These dependencies are all already prepared on cori - use this environment:

```bash
module swap PrgEnv-intel  PrgEnv-gnu
module unload darshan
module load hdf5-parallel/1.10.1
module load python/3.6-anaconda-4.4
module load cfitsio/3.370-reentrant
module load gsl/2.1
source activate /global/projecta/projectdirs/lsst/groups/WL/users/zuntz/env
```

Input test data
---------------

You can get input test data from here:
```
curl -O https://portal.nersc.gov/project/lsst/WeakLensing/mock_shear_catalog.fits
curl -O https://portal.nersc.gov/project/lsst/WeakLensing/mock_photometry_catalog.hdf
```

Or if running on NERSC see the commented out parts of test/test.yml

Running the pipeline
--------------------

Make sure that the ceci directory is on your PYTHONPATH and ceci/bin is on your PATH.
Then you can run:

```bash
ceci test/test.yml
```

or on Cori:
```bash
salloc -N 1 -q interactive -C haswell -t 0:30:00
ceci test/cori-interactive.yml
```

to run the implemented stages

Implementation
--------------

Each pipeline stage is implemented as a python class inheriting from ceci.Pipeline stage.  These subclasses should:

- have a "name" attribute string.
- have class attributes "inputs" and "outputs", each of which is a list of tuple pairs with a string tag and a FileType class.
- define a "config_options" dictionary of options it expects to find in its section of the main config file, with the value as a default for the option or a type if there is no default.
- implement a "run" method doing the actual work of the class.  Your class should then call the methods described below to interact with the pipeline


Some implementation notes:

- Our catalogs will be large. Wherever possible stages should operate on chunks of their input data at once. ceci has some methods for this (see README)
- Pipeline stages shouldn't copy existing columns to new data.
- No ASCII output allowed!
- Python 3.6
- We will do code review
- One file per box (?)

Pipeline Stage Methods
----------------------

The pipeline stages can use these methods to interact with the pipeline:

Basic tools to find the file path:

- self.get_input(tag)
- self.get_output(tag)

Get base class to find and open the file for you

- self.open_input(tag, **kwargs)
- self.open_output(tag, **kwargs)


Look for a section in a yaml input file tagged "config"
and read it.  If the config_options class variable exists in the class
then it checks those options are set or uses any supplied defaults:

- self.config['name_of_option']

Parallelization tools - MPI attributes:

- self.rank
- self.size
- self.comm

(Parallel) IO tools - reading data in chunks, splitting up 
according to MPI rank:

- self.iterate_fits(tag, hdunum, cols, chunk_rows)
- self.iterate_hdf(tag, group_name, cols, chunk_rows)








Volunteers
----------

- Chihway C & Emily PL - TXTwoPointReal (WLPipe porting & testing)
- David A - TXSysMapMaker
- Anze S - SACC
- Tim E - TXCov
- Alex M - TXSourceSummarizer
- Antonino T & David A - TXTwoPointPower

Commit message:

update docs to show docker version

README.md, after:

DESC 3x2pt Pipeline Stages
--------------------------

This is a collection of modules for the DESC 3x2pt pipeline.
We will build up the modules needed for the analysis as shown in the Pipelines repository.

It builds on the ceci repository for the infrastructure.

Goals
-----

- Test using parsl for some of our larger more complex analyses.
- Build and test a prototype pipeline infrastructure.
- Build and run prototype.
- Perform and publish a DC2 3x2pt analysis.


Installation
------------

Requires python3, numpy, scipy, pyyaml, fitsio, h5py (which in turn needs HDF5), and parsl.

Needs the ceci DESC library on the python path (which is not quite stable enough to be worth a setup.py yet).

On NERSC (Cori) - see the instructions below

Docker
------

In Docker, from the main directory:

```bash
docker pull joezuntz/txpipe
docker run --rm -it -v$PWD:/opt/txpipe joezuntz/txpipe
```

Then you will be inside the container, where you can do:

```bash
cd /opt/txpipe
ceci test/test-fourier.yaml
```

Cori
----

These dependencies are all already prepared on cori - use this environment:

```bash
module swap PrgEnv-intel  PrgEnv-gnu
module unload darshan
module load hdf5-parallel/1.10.1
module load python/3.6-anaconda-4.4
module load cfitsio/3.370-reentrant
module load gsl/2.1
source activate /global/projecta/projectdirs/lsst/groups/WL/users/zuntz/env
```

Input test data
---------------

You can get input test data from here:
```
curl -O https://portal.nersc.gov/project/lsst/WeakLensing/mock_shear_catalog.fits
curl -O https://portal.nersc.gov/project/lsst/WeakLensing/mock_photometry_catalog.hdf
```

Or if running on NERSC see the commented out parts of test/test.yml

Running the pipeline
--------------------

Make sure that the ceci directory is on your PYTHONPATH and ceci/bin is on your PATH.
Then you can run:

```bash
ceci test/test.yml
```

or on Cori:
```bash
salloc -N 1 -q interactive -C haswell -t 0:30:00
ceci test/cori-interactive.yml
```

to run the implemented stages

Implementation
--------------

Each pipeline stage is implemented as a python class inheriting from ceci.Pipeline stage.  These subclasses should:

- have a "name" attribute string.
- have class attributes "inputs" and "outputs", each of which is a list of tuple pairs with a string tag and a FileType class.
- define a "config_options" dictionary of options it expects to find in its section of the main config file, with the value as a default for the option or a type if there is no default.
- implement a "run" method doing the actual work of the class.  Your class should then call the methods described below to interact with the pipeline


Some implementation notes:

- Our catalogs will be large. Wherever possible stages should operate on chunks of their input data at once. ceci has some methods for this (see README)
- Pipeline stages shouldn't copy existing columns to new data.
- No ASCII output allowed!
- Python 3.6
- We will do code review
- One file per box (?)

Pipeline Stage Methods
----------------------

The pipeline stages can use these methods to interact with the pipeline:

Basic tools to find the file path:

- self.get_input(tag)
- self.get_output(tag)

Get base class to find and open the file for you

- self.open_input(tag, **kwargs)
- self.open_output(tag, **kwargs)


Look for a section in a yaml input file tagged "config"
and read it.  If the config_options class variable exists in the class
then it checks those options are set or uses any supplied defaults:

- self.config['name_of_option']

Parallelization tools - MPI attributes:

- self.rank
- self.size
- self.comm

(Parallel) IO tools - reading data in chunks, splitting up 
according to MPI rank:

- self.iterate_fits(tag, hdunum, cols, chunk_rows)
- self.iterate_hdf(tag, group_name, cols, chunk_rows)








Volunteers
----------

- Chihway C & Emily PL - TXTwoPointReal (WLPipe porting & testing)
- David A - TXSysMapMaker
- Anze S - SACC
- Tim E - TXCov
- Alex M - TXSourceSummarizer
- Antonino T & David A - TXTwoPointPower
